# Tags

Created: October 21, 2022 1:55 PM
Type: Section - HTML
Materials: https://btholt.github.io/complete-intro-to-web-dev-v3/lessons/html/tags, https://btholt.github.io/complete-intro-to-web-dev-v3/lessons/html/types-of-tags
Reviewed: Yes

<aside>
💡 **Notion Tip:** Add more details right in this page, including toggles, images, and webpage links, and more. Break up the page by using our different header options so that it’s easier to read. Learn more about different types of content blocks [here](https://www.notion.so/guides/types-of-content-blocks).

</aside>

## Tags

HTML's base building block is the **tag**. A tag is a building block. It describes what's inside it. Every tag has an opening and a closing tag (some tags open and close at the same point).

```html
<h1>This is the title to my document</h1>
```

You can see the `<h1>` and the `</h1>` surrounding the text "This is the the title to my document". This is how HTML operates. You can have opening tag which has information or more tags inside of it.

h1 tags - you should only have one h1 per page since semantically it indicates the title of the page

Blind and people who can't see well will use screen readers to read web pages out loud to them; it uses things like headers to understand what information is important to read to the users. It's also how Google and Bing will understand the important details of your website. In other words, it's important which type of tag you use.

Closing tags always have a slash, `/`, after the opening angle bracket, so it looks like `</h1>`. There are things called "self-closing tags" or "void tags" that open and close themselves. These will look like this: `<input />`. That slash at the end means it is self closing. To make it more confusing, that last slash is optional, so `<input>` is valid too since input tags are always self-closing.

The most recently opened tag must be the next closed tag:

```html
<div>
  <h1>Hi</h1>
</div>
```

There is six levels of headings and subheadings. An h2 is a subheading to an h1. An h3 is a subheading to a h2. Some schools of thought say each page should only have one h1. I'm of the opinion that just use these as it feels appropriate to.

`p` – Paragraph. You'll put a paragraph of text inside of a `p`
 tag. Only text goes in `p` tags.